And now that we flipped over the carcass,
we can start taking a look
at what's happening inside.
But first, before we get into that,
I think it's very helpful
to look at the tools
that I'll be using to get through it.
Butcher shops can be equipped
with hundreds
of thousands of dollars
worth of equipment for today's purposes.
And actually, truth be told,
for the majority of the work that I do
as a butcher,
I use these minimal amounts of equipment.
I don't own a band saw self admittedly,
I have to admit that right now
anyway, what we will be
using is Old Faithful.
This is my bones saw a 20 inch bone saw.
I'm using a ten inch scimitar
or steak knife.
And then the one that gets 99% of the work
is my six inch boning knife.
Looking at the interior of the carcass,
there's always two things that I'm looking
for immediately when I when I turn over
a pig carcass and both of those things
being A) that the kidney
is still intact and that it actually has
a little bit of a slice in it.
This is the inspectors
who stamp the outside of the carcass.
This is another way
that they're doing due diligence
to look at the health of the animal.
There is always going to be
a slice in the kidney.
They're just looking for a healthy color
to the kidney.
That kidney will get removed.
I just take my knife and I just come under
and remove the kidney. OK.
From there, I'm
looking at the leaf
fat it's not always on the carcass,
but it's always a pleasant surprise
when it is because it's so useful
when the carcass is hot
and after it's been freshly eviscerated,
this piece of fat
is laying on top of the belly. So
after the animal's been eviscerated,
what they'll do is they'll roll it
and they'll pull it away from the carcass
and then let it hang.
So after an evening chilling overnight
in the fridge, it loses a bit of moisture.
And what happens is it becomes
a little bit more cylindrical in shape.
All that to say, I like to
just pull it out with my hands like so
and I pull it back towards the back leg
and it just comes right out.
So the leaf fat
before the invention
of vegetable shortening.
This is a very, very clean and pure fat,
so it can be rendered down
liquified, strained and into its pure form
and used as something
that you would be baking with.
So lard is what we call it
after it's been rendered down,
so something that we certainly want
to be keeping off the animal.